1. what is it
Science should be open, sexy, and fun.
  Where open source lab instruments, open data protocols, and electronic lab notebooks meet
  large format multitouch installations and augmented reality technologies,
  there will be tons of awesome, learning-by-doing, and fun.

    large display table
      here, have a picture of reactable and of multitouch table
      instrument++
      open gel box 2.0 with imaging directly onto table
      high res cameras for logging results

  Flow of talk parallels flow of usage of final project:
  open instruments -> mix in artful hacking env, then output to electronic lab notebooks
    1 part open source lab instruments
    1 part artful hacking for an engaging, "flowful" experience
    1 part open science

1.1. open source lab instruments
  (show of hands, who uses open source tools on a daily basis)
  (now, open-source or not, how many of you built some of the tools you use on a daily basis?)
  (out of curiosity, any astronomers? (in a really loose sense?) how many biologists?)

* encouraging a culture of makers/builders/DIYers for chem/bio instruments
* enhanced instruments * instrument hacking * DIYbio * free

  dyson's quote

  "so, what are we working with?"
  target sciences - anything like cooking
    synthetic and molecular biology
    genetics
    organic, bio, physical, and synthetic chemistry
  the sciences we're targetting largely consist of moving small volumes of liquid around;
    mixing them, separating them, and measuring different properties of them.
    here, have a slide full of pictures of lab equipment
  modified instruments that track the movement of small fluids
  modified instruments that automatically log any data measurements performed

  core platform + instruments
  open data logging protocols and formats
  lab managment software (LIMS)
  intelligent guidance from semantic data
  open data formats for protocol specification (CLP-ML)
  protocol planner
  protocol guide
  integrated lab robotics
  open source high-throughput technologies

1.2. artful hacking for an engaging, flowful experience
multitouch
computer vision
augmented reality
reactable
making your work more fun is not achieved by saccharine-izing it; it's achieved by reinforcing flow.
  sudo gem install zentest && sudo gem install redgreen

HCI/sexiness
  workflow recordind and annotation
  artful hacking
  visuals
  large format data representation
  lifestreaming
  intuitive data processing
  sexy and fun
  futurism
  interactive
  make science as fun as a video game
  awesome museum installation
  public outreach
  appeal

1.3. open science (recording, publishing)
openwetware.org is the github.com of science (not everybody uses it, just those who "get it" ;)
(what's the IRC of science? if you know, tell me)

electronic lab notebook
instant imaging to notebook
wiki
collaboration
realtime video
remote lab science

2. where is it right now
basement tinkering
betahouse devhouse boston 5
hackerspace willoughbybaltic.com

3. get involved
scientists, enthusiasts, tinkerers, makers
artists, HCIers, designers, interactive folks
programmers, roboticists, electronics hackers
natural philosophers, practical physicists
free open source hardware/software lovers

projectsmartlab.org
